Intro to coding - Improved (#2716)
enkidevs/curriculum: coding-intro/coding-intro-core/core-concepts/organizing-commands.md

---

# Functions

---
## Content

Functions allow us to make little snippets of code, each for a separate task that we do within our program. For instance, we are simulating a human being that loves coffee, so much that he makes 10 cups a day. For every cup of coffee he would need to do the following:

1. find a clean cup
2. boil water
3. open the packet
4. mix the coffee with the boiling water.
5. drink (gulp, gulp)

> That's so much work! Instead, imagine if we had one function `makeCoffeee` with all of these instructions. Every time we want coffee, we write `makeCoffee` and, voila! - the work is done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's so much work! Instead, imagine if we had one function `make_coffee` with all of these instructions. Every time we want coffee, we write `make_coffee` and, voila! - the work is done.
```

### Easier to read

> Functions give the program structure and make them easy to understand. Makebed, BrushTeeth, and ReadBook would be a lot easier to understand rather than a series of steps laid out one after the other.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Functions give the program structure and make them easy to understand. MakeBed, BrushTeeth, and ReadBook would be a lot easier to understand rather than a series of steps laid out one after the other.
```

Reviewer 2: Although I guess we should use snake_case? Not sure cc @kapnobatai137

Author: Wasn't using them in code blocks so i thought this might make them more readable. But if snake_case would be more suitable can convert them. Up to you guys.

Reviewer: yeah, we use snake_case for function names throughout the topic, so we should use them here as well

```suggestion
Functions give the program structure and make them easy to understand. `make_bed`, `brush_teeth`, and `read_book` would be a lot easier to understand rather than a series of steps laid out one after the other.
```

> 💡 You should give your functions explanatory names to make it easier for the reader to understand what they do.

> Can you think of 3 other functions straight out of your everyday life?

Reviewer: as a general approach, I think we should spell out any numbers between one and ten

https://www.grammarly.com/blog/when-to-spell-out-numbers/

```suggestion
Can you think of three other functions straight out of your everyday life?
```
